[Music]
many of New Zealand's birds flew here
from Australia 1,500 miles away across
the sea to the west they started to do
so millions of years ago and they're
still doing so today
[Music]
so if you know Australian birds you will
recognize quite a lot particularly those
that are relatively recent arrivals the
New Zealand pigeon is not all that much
different from Australian mums the
Saddleback on the other hand must have
been established here for much longer
but it has changed so much that no one
is quite sure what family belongs to the
tui has similarly mysterious origins no
other bird has a costume to compare with
its lacy Cape and that little white
fruit model the cat guy is clearly
apparent there are lots of palates in
Australia so it's not surprising that
some of them in the past should have
found their way here
most of these birds have still not
learned that mammals are dangerous this
Saddleback is a fully wild bird and
certainly hasn't seen me before but look
how trusting it is
[Music]
this is a New Zealand Robin it's no
relation to the European Robin and if
anything it's even braver